content/projects/2025_08_04_debate.md, before:

---
title: "World School Debate Experience"
category: "English Debate"
subcategory: "Team Competition"
description: ""
imageUrl: "images/optimized/projects/2025_08_04_debate/titlecard.webp"
year: "2020–2025"
date: "2025-08-04"
role: "Debater"
technologies: ["Tea and Coffee", "Last-Minute Panic"]
pinned: 11
featured: true
---

## Project Overview

This project showcases my experience and growth as a debater in the World Schools Debating Championships (WSDC) format. I was first introduced to English debate in my first year of middle school under the guidance of Jeff Tsai and Yohan Wang, but it wasn't until high school that I truly began to excel. Looking back, it's hard to overstate the impact of debate on my delivery, critical thinking, and overall confidence. With my high school debating career drawing to a close after FHDO 2025, it's the perfect time to reflect on this transformative journey.

---

## How It Started

Debate was first introduced as an alternative to writing academic essays when I entered Chingshin Middle School. As someone who was reluctant to write essays, it was a natural choice. I was hesitant at first but was quickly hooked by the engaging discussions and the thrill of constructing arguments on the spot.

While 7th grade was a challenging year, I gradually found my voice and began to enjoy the process of debating. I found a particular affinity for the role of the first speaker and enjoyed offering constant POIs. After getting a handle on the format and techniques, I started participating in more competitions. Despite my passion, the competition in large tournaments like TSDC was relentless. But even when the results weren't in my favor, I was never tired of the brainstorming and discussions amidst the struggle. While I didn't win any awards in my first year, the experience laid a solid foundation for my future endeavors.

After my initial foray into debate, I continued to hone my skills throughout middle school and into high school. It was in high school where I grew familiar with my current team, Sean and Morris. Together, we pushed each other to improve and excel.

## Competition Highlights

Below are some of the key competitions I participated in, mostly from after 2023, as the TabbyCat links for earlier events have been lost in the sea of my Gmail inbox.

### [TSDC 2023](https://tsdc2023.calicotab.com/tsdc2023/)

The Taiwan Schools Debating Challenge (TSDC) is one of the most significant debate tournaments in Taiwan, attracting top schools and debaters, including teams from the Taiwan Debate Union (TDU), the national team. In 2023, Morris, Sean, and I reached the semifinals before being eliminated.

![Team results for TSDC 2023](images/optimized/projects/2025_08_04_debate/TSDC_2023_result.webp)
![I was also ranked 13th in speaker scores out of 139 participants](images/optimized/projects/2025_08_04_debate/TSDC_2023_speaker.webp)

### [FHDO 2023](https://fhdo.calicotab.com/fhdo2023/)

The Fushing High School Debate Open (FHDO) is an annual tournament that attracts participants from various high schools. Unlike many school-hosted events, FHDO is renowned for its highly competitive atmosphere, attracting numerous TDU members. In 2023, I participated with Jenny and Julien. Despite winning 3 out of 4 preliminary rounds, we were unable to break into the elimination rounds due to lower speaker scores, showing just how stacked the competition was.

![Team results for FHDO 2023](images/optimized/projects/2025_08_04_debate/FHDO_2023_result.webp)

### [TEJT 2023](https://tejt.calicotab.com/tejt2023/)

The Taipei European Junior Tournament (TEJT), hosted by Taipei European School, provides a platform for junior debaters to showcase their skills. In 2023, my teammates and I broke into the semifinals.

![Team results for TEJT 2023](images/optimized/projects/2025_08_04_debate/TEJT_result.webp)
![I was also ranked 12th in speaker scores out of 67 participants](images/optimized/projects/2025_08_04_debate/TEJT_SPEAKER.webp)

### [TSDC 2024](https://tsdc.calicotab.com/tsdc2024/)

In 2024, I returned to TSDC with the same team, aiming to build on our previous experience. We worked hard to refine our strategies and improve our speaking skills. We faced tough competition once again and were ultimately eliminated in the semifinals.

![Team results for TSDC 2024](images/optimized/projects/2025_08_04_debate/TSDC_2024_result.webp)

### FHDO 2024

In 2024, I participated in FHDO with my teammates again, facing even tougher competition. Despite our best efforts and winning 3 of our 4 rounds, we were once again unable to break, a result that fueled our determination for the next year.

![Team results for FHDO 2024](images/optimized/projects/2025_08_04_debate/FHDO_2024_result.webp)

### FHDO 2025

Building on the experience of the previous two years, we entered FHDO 2025 with a stronger sense of strategy and teamwork. We not only managed to break into the elimination rounds but also advanced to the finals, winning the tournament with an undefeated 6-0 record.

![Team results for FHDO 2025](images/optimized/projects/2025_08_04_debate/FHDO_2025_result.webp)
![I was also ranked 3rd in speaker scores out of 72 participants](images/optimized/projects/2025_08_04_debate/FHDO_2025_speaker.webp)

---

## Reflection

With the win at FHDO and Morris heading to UCLA, my high school debate career has reached a satisfying conclusion. It's been an incredible journey filled with growth, challenges, and unforgettable memories.

I still remember the thrill of competition: the frantic last five minutes of prep time when nothing had been written on our papers, the sudden spark of inspiration for a brilliant idea that only came during the third speaker's speech. But beyond the debates, I also loved every moment spent with my teammates—the lunch breaks spent buying way too much tea and snacks, the post-game chats where we regretted every missed opportunity.

It still amazes me every time I retrace my growth as a speaker and see the indispensable role debating has played in shaping my confidence and communication skills. If not for debate, I would not be the person I am today.

---

## Acknowledgements

I want to express my deepest gratitude to my teammates for their unwavering support and collaboration, especially Morris and Sean, who played pivotal roles in every single debate. I also owe my sincere appreciation to Jeff and Yohan for their guidance throughout this journey, helping me grow as a debater and a speaker.

Commit message:

feat: update ArXiv paper IDs and add cover mockup credits for various projects

content/projects/2025_08_04_debate.md, after:

---
title: "World School Debate Experience"
category: "English Debate"
subcategory: "Team Competition"
description: ""
imageUrl: "images/optimized/projects/2025_08_04_debate/titlecard.webp"
year: "2020–2025"
date: "2025-08-04"
role: "Debater"
technologies: ["Tea and Coffee", "Last-Minute Panic"]
pinned: 11
featured: true
---

## Project Overview

This project showcases my experience and growth as a debater in the World Schools Debating Championships (WSDC) format. I was first introduced to English debate in my first year of middle school under the guidance of Jeff Tsai and Yohan Wang, but it wasn't until high school that I truly began to excel. Looking back, it's hard to overstate the impact of debate on my delivery, critical thinking, and overall confidence. With my high school debating career drawing to a close after FHDO 2025, it's the perfect time to reflect on this transformative journey.

---

## How It Started

Debate was first introduced as an alternative to writing academic essays when I entered Chingshin Middle School. As someone who was reluctant to write essays, it was a natural choice. I was hesitant at first but was quickly hooked by the engaging discussions and the thrill of constructing arguments on the spot.

While 7th grade was a challenging year, I gradually found my voice and began to enjoy the process of debating. I found a particular affinity for the role of the first speaker and enjoyed offering constant POIs. After getting a handle on the format and techniques, I started participating in more competitions. Despite my passion, the competition in large tournaments like TSDC was relentless. But even when the results weren't in my favor, I was never tired of the brainstorming and discussions amidst the struggle. While I didn't win any awards in my first year, the experience laid a solid foundation for my future endeavors.

After my initial foray into debate, I continued to hone my skills throughout middle school and into high school. It was in high school where I grew familiar with my current team, Sean and Morris. Together, we pushed each other to improve and excel.

## Competition Highlights

Below are some of the key competitions I participated in, mostly from after 2023, as the TabbyCat links for earlier events have been lost in the sea of my Gmail inbox.

### [TSDC 2023](https://tsdc2023.calicotab.com/tsdc2023/)

The Taiwan Schools Debating Challenge (TSDC) is one of the most significant debate tournaments in Taiwan, attracting top schools and debaters, including teams from the Taiwan Debate Union (TDU), the national team. In 2023, Morris, Sean, and I reached the semifinals before being eliminated.

![Team results for TSDC 2023](images/optimized/projects/2025_08_04_debate/TSDC_2023_result.webp)
![I was also ranked 13th in speaker scores out of 139 participants](images/optimized/projects/2025_08_04_debate/TSDC_2023_speaker.webp)

### [FHDO 2023](https://fhdo.calicotab.com/fhdo2023/)

The Fushing High School Debate Open (FHDO) is an annual tournament that attracts participants from various high schools. Unlike many school-hosted events, FHDO is renowned for its highly competitive atmosphere, attracting numerous TDU members. In 2023, I participated with Jenny and Julien. Despite winning 3 out of 4 preliminary rounds, we were unable to break into the elimination rounds due to lower speaker scores, showing just how stacked the competition was.

![Team results for FHDO 2023](images/optimized/projects/2025_08_04_debate/FHDO_2023_result.webp)

### [TEJT 2023](https://tejt.calicotab.com/tejt2023/)

The Taipei European Junior Tournament (TEJT), hosted by Taipei European School, provides a platform for junior debaters to showcase their skills. In 2023, my teammates and I broke into the semifinals.

![Team results for TEJT 2023](images/optimized/projects/2025_08_04_debate/TEJT_result.webp)
![I was also ranked 12th in speaker scores out of 67 participants](images/optimized/projects/2025_08_04_debate/TEJT_SPEAKER.webp)

### [TSDC 2024](https://tsdc.calicotab.com/tsdc2024/)

In 2024, I returned to TSDC with the same team, aiming to build on our previous experience. We worked hard to refine our strategies and improve our speaking skills. We faced tough competition once again and were ultimately eliminated in the semifinals.

![Team results for TSDC 2024](images/optimized/projects/2025_08_04_debate/TSDC_2024_result.webp)

### FHDO 2024

In 2024, I participated in FHDO with my teammates again, facing even tougher competition. Despite our best efforts and winning 3 of our 4 rounds, we were once again unable to break, a result that fueled our determination for the next year.

![Team results for FHDO 2024](images/optimized/projects/2025_08_04_debate/FHDO_2024_result.webp)

### FHDO 2025

Building on the experience of the previous two years, we entered FHDO 2025 with a stronger sense of strategy and teamwork. We not only managed to break into the elimination rounds but also advanced to the finals, winning the tournament with an undefeated 6-0 record.

![Team results for FHDO 2025](images/optimized/projects/2025_08_04_debate/FHDO_2025_result.webp)
![I was also ranked 3rd in speaker scores out of 72 participants](images/optimized/projects/2025_08_04_debate/FHDO_2025_speaker.webp)

---

## Reflection

With the win at FHDO and Morris heading to UCLA, my high school debate career has reached a satisfying conclusion. It's been an incredible journey filled with growth, challenges, and unforgettable memories.

I still remember the thrill of competition: the frantic last five minutes of prep time when nothing had been written on our papers, the sudden spark of inspiration for a brilliant idea that only came during the third speaker's speech. But beyond the debates, I also loved every moment spent with my teammates—the lunch breaks spent buying way too much tea and snacks, the post-game chats where we regretted every missed opportunity.

It still amazes me every time I retrace my growth as a speaker and see the indispensable role debating has played in shaping my confidence and communication skills. If not for debate, I would not be the person I am today.

---

## Acknowledgements

I want to express my deepest gratitude to my teammates for their unwavering support and collaboration, especially Morris and Sean, who played pivotal roles in every single debate. I also owe my sincere appreciation to Jeff and Yohan for their guidance throughout this journey, helping me grow as a debater and a speaker. 

Cover image from Unsplash by [Planet Volumes](https://unsplash.com/photos/a-row-of-microphones-sitting-on-top-of-a-wooden-table-SGgvAWDoF3U).
